---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---
### Deciding On and Setting Up Our Project!

During this past Tuesday's class we finally decided upon group projects. Of the two projects I was previously considering getting involved with (mlpack and Julia) I have chosen to work on Julia (I am very happy about this, as this is the one I was more excited about!). I will be working together with my classmates Emma and Kamal to get up to speed with the code base and find meaningful issues to work on or patches to implement for the project.

There are a number of reasons that I find Julia such an exciting project to work on. First of all, the project has made an active effort to recruit new contributors. Of the almost 2500 currently listed issues on GitHub, many are marked with "good first issue" tags. Julia has also been a participant in Google Summer of Code for the past several years, and have a host of possible student projects listed [here](https://julialang.org/soc/ideas-page). On top of this, the project has some of the most well laid out documentation, build instructions, and community resources I have come across. The are tons of learning resources linked to on their [website](https://julialang.org/learning/), and senior members and contributors to the language clearly take their time to help new users get up and running. Most importantly, though, contributing to such a quickly growing and powerful language (which can be read all about [here](http://ucidatascienceinitiative.github.io/IntroToJulia/Html/WhyJulia)) seems like a huge challenge that I can learn a ton from and (hopefully) stay involved with for a long time to come.

All of that aside, I am really looking forward diving into this project, and the first step in doing so requires setting up my development environment!

#### Building from Source

Binaries are available from the Julia organization's website, but since we want to contribute to the language we have to build from source. The instructions on how to do so are included in the [README](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia) of the project's GitHub repository. We had to first make sure the following dependencies were installed:
```
GNU make — building dependencies.
gcc & g++ (>= 4.7) or Clang (>= 3.1, Xcode 4.3.3 on macOS) — compiling and linking C, C++.
libatomic — provided by gcc and needed to support atomic operations.
python (>=2.7) — needed to build LLVM.
gfortran — compiling and linking Fortran libraries.
perl — preprocessing of header files of libraries.
wget, curl, or fetch (FreeBSD) — to automatically download external libraries.
m4 — needed to build GMP.
awk — helper tool for Makefiles.
patch — for modifying source code.
cmake (>= 3.4.3) — needed to build libgit2.
pkg-config — needed to build libgit2 correctly, especially for proxy support.
```
After making sure all dependencies were installed, all it took was cloning the repository, cd'ing into it and running `make`. The build took over two hours(!!!) but, aside from a number of compiler warnings, ran smoothly, and Julia is now all set up on my system!

#### Possible Issues to Contribute to



#### Contributions

I have been reviewing a number of different resources to get up to speed with the Julia language. While going over a set of particularly useful tutorials from the [UC Irvine Data Science Initiative](https://github.com/UCIDataScienceInitiative/IntroToJulia) I noticed a few typos, so I fixed them and issued a [pull request](https://github.com/UCIDataScienceInitiative/IntroToJulia/pull/47). Hopefully they like the changes and end up merging them!
