---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---
### Finding a Project

This week, we were tasked with finally narrowing down what projects we would like contribute to.  The aim was to identify three projects of interest, out of which we will pick one to work on within the next week.  Before discussing the potential projects I found, here are some of the other class related activities that were covered this week:

- I read [*The Cathedral and the Bazaar*](http://www.catb.org/esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/) for the first time. An interesting essay on the author's experience maintaining and open source project (fetchmail). ESR introduces 19 "tenets" that open source development ought to abide by.
- During class on Tuesday, February 26, Christos Bacharakis of Mozilla came to talk to our class about his journey and involvement in open source development. Christos gave a great presentation and provided us with a ton of resources to help us find new projects and get further involved in open source.
- We were given another project evaluation task, this time focusing on the overall activity level of a single project. Our group assessed the DOxygen project. I found the exercise helped prepare me to evaluate projects I want to get involved with on my own. My teammates were really vigilante with filling out the evaluation, so I simply added some edits and refactored some of the formatting.

I used a number of different resources to look for projects to contribute to. In his talk, Christos gave us the links to a [few different tools](https://fixme.ossn.club/) Mozilla had developed to help students new to open source find projects to work on.  Additionally, Professor Weiss provided a link to a [github repo](https://github.com/lk-geimfari/awesomo) which contained a list of open source projects grouped by the primary language each was written in.  I ultimately ended up finding a few projects I was interested in from the Google Summer of Code 2019 [organization list](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/).

The projects I initially fixated on were [mlpack](https://mlpack.org/), [shogun](http://shogun.ml/), [spacemacs](http://spacemacs.org/), and [Julia](https://julialang.org/). Spacemacs (which is essentially a wrapper around Emacs that provides Vim key bindings, along with a nice interface and layer system)is not a part of Google Summer of Code, but it is a **great** text editor/development environment that I have been using for a little while now. I have gotten somewhat comfortable writing Emacs Lisp to configure the editor, and thought it might be a fun experience contributing to the project, as it is one I am obviously invested in. That being said, my Lisp isn't *that* strong, so I shied away from this project. Both mlpack and shogun are machine learning libraries written in C++, so both are projects written in a language I am familiar with and based on topics I am quite interested in.  Of the two, mlpack seemed like the more coherent, well-documented and welcoming to new and inexperienced contributors, so I chose to focus on that of the two.  Finally, Julia is a young (~10 years) dynamic programming language that is geared toward scientists.  After coming across it, I dabbled with a few of the tutorials and already started to love the language.  The project is actively looking for new contributions, and there are tons of "good first issues" listed in the github tracker to work on.  Between Julia and mlpack, I think I would prefer to work on Julia (it would be so so cool to contribute to an actual *language*!!!), but both seem like fulfilling projects that I would learn a lot from.

In this coming Tuesday's class, we will form groups around the different projects people have proposed (as this is, for most of us, our first foray into open source development, working in tandem with a few other students makes a lot of sense). Check back in next weeks blog to hear which project I'll ultimately be working on!
