---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
### Our First Foray into Open Source!

For this week, we were given two different assigments.  The first was to talk about the difference between Open Source Software and Free Software, and the second was to discuss our experience contributing to the open source project OpenStreetMap.

#### Open Source Software vs. Free Software

In order to understand the distinction between Open Source and Free Software, it will be helpful understand first the core tenets that define Freet Software.  From the GNU Project's website, the four essential freedoms of free software are:

>- The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose (freedom 0).
>- The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish (freedom 1). Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
>- The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help others (freedom 2).
>- The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others (freedom 3). By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from your changes. Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
>
> -- <cite>[Free Software Foundation](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html)</cite>

Put simply, the four essential freedoms are the freedom to use the program how you see fit, to study and change the program how you see fit, and to distribute both the original and modified copies of the program.  These tenets are in fact quite similar to those provided by the Open Source Initiative's [definition of Open Source](https://opensource.org/osd).  The right to both redistribute and modify software is similarly laid out in the OSD.  There are, however, two key distinctions between Free and Open Source Software.

Free Software permits what is known as "copyleft".  Essentially, copyleft is a rule that prohibits adding restrictions that deny the original four freedoms to other people when redistributing a program.  Open Source Software, however, cannot place such restrictions on those who make use of a program.  As is laid out in the OSD:

>The license must not place restrictions on other software that is distributed along with the licensed software. For example, the license must not insist that all other programs distributed on the same medium must be open-source software.
>
>-- <cite>[Open Source Initiave](https://opensource.org/osd)</cite>

Outside of this difference in redistribution regulation, what really separates Free Software and Open Source Software are the ideologies underlying each.  After all, as the GNU Project notes, the two terms refer to nearly the same set of software.  Yet "Free" and "Open Source" delineate very different ways of thinking.  The GNU Project lays this out nicely:

>Open source is a development methodology; free software is a social movement. For the free software movement, free software is an ethical imperative, essential respect for the users' freedom. By contrast, the philosophy of open source considers issues in terms of how to make software “better”—in a practical sense only. It says that nonfree software is an inferior solution to the practical problem at hand... For the free software movement, however, nonfree software is a social problem, and the solution is to stop using it and move to free software.
>
>-- <cite>[Free Software Foundation](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html)</cite>

Despite the overlap of the terms, "Open Source" fixates on practicality, whereas "Free" emphasizes the philosophical underpinnings of the movement.

#### OpenStreetMap
This week marked my first contributions to the OpenStreetMap project (my contributions can be viewed [here](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/msaterson/history)).  To begin participating I made some very simple changes to the map.  I deleted an extraneous point that was labeled on the map, marked a laundromat and a pharmacy, and edited the subway information for the 86th St stop on the Q train.

I felt both hesitant to begin the activity and bored while completing it, but in reflecting on the experience I realized these two feelings underscored something important about open source particiaption.

My hesitation or apprehension came from the worry that the changes I made wouldn't align with the general guidelines for how contributions ought to be made to the project.  Thus, before diving in and adding changes to the map, I made sure to get comfortable with the environment and observe how other users had added changes and collaborated.

Since the task of editing the map ended being a fairly trivial one, I became bored after inserting just a few edits.  That boredom, however, helped me to appreciate the scope of OpenStreetMap and the amount of dedication it has taken from its contributors to make the software so viable.  The task of continually updating and monitoring OpenStreetMap takes an involved and dedicated community of individuals from around the globe.  While the task at hand may not be the most exciting, people have sacrificed their time and talent in order to maintain this important project.  That kind of collaboration and participation is something I admire, and it has further encouraged me to get involved in open source initiatives.
