---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---
### Thinking About Contributing...

Our task for this week was to begin thinking about how we would like start contributing to an open source project.  Specifically, we had to focus on two questions:

- What should our frist contributions to an open source project look like?
- What kind of project would you like to contribute to, and what sort of causes are important to you?

I think one of the obstacles that has always gotten in the way of my participating in open source development was the idea that the only way I could contribute to a project was to implement a fix for the code base, whether that be patching a bug or introducing a new feature.  One of the things that our recent readings have made clear to me is that writing source code is only one aspect of what makes up an open source project.  For every project I have come across, the way that they suggest getting involved starts with reading documentation, familiarizing yourself with the code, and joining any discussion platforms that the project hosts.  Implementing new features or patches for the code base is only one aspect of the open source development process.  Becoming a part of the community, reviewing changes, and offering help to other users who are new to the project are all valuable to the overall growth and sustainability of the project.  In light of this, I would like my first contributions to be limited in scope.  My aim is to get involved in any discussion forums (IRC channels, mailing lists, issues listed on Github, etc.) and from there, once familiar with the project, help with issues listed as good for beginners or possibly work on documentation.

In terms of the kind of projects I am interested in getting involved with, I would love to participate in a project that either involves machine learning or one that focuses on humanitarian issues.  Machine learning and AI are the fields of computer science that I have been the most involved with in my undergraduate coursework, and I am deeply interested in them.  Being that I have some background in these subjects, I think that working on a project that involves them wouldn't feel too immediately overwhelming and would only help to strengthen my overall understanding of the material.  If this aim is too ambitious for the scope of this semester, however, I would be happy to join a project focused on humanitarian issues as my first foray into open source.  In particular, I would look to particpate in a project that works on issues related to climate change.
