---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
### Updates from Julia

As a refresher, the following two issues were ones we had identified over the past two weeks as possible ones to contribute to:

[Issue 31202](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/issues/31202): Documenting all exports from the standard libraries

[Issue 31232](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/issues/31232): the function `__init__()` has undocumented behavior

We have identified an additional documentation issue to look at:

[Issue 31143](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/issues/31143): It should be mentioned in the manual that Rationals are checked for overflow

All three issues involve documentation, which we still feel is the best way to begin contributing.  Issues 31143 and 31232 involve particular documentation fixes, where as Issue 31202 is a much larger and long stadning issue centered on documenting Julia's standard library.

While documentation issues may be our best bet towards getting our foot in the door, I have also been hoping to identify a few issues suited towards new contributers that involve actual coding (whether that be implementing some functionality, writing tests, etc.).  My hope is that as we continue to learn and get more comfortable with the language, more and more of the issues will feel manageable.  As mentioned in previous posts, we are also looking at a number of corollary Julia packages for possible issues as well.  The Julia ecosystem is quite vast, and I am fairly confident we will soon come across some issues in other packages which we would like to tackle.

Aside from continuing to look for issues to contribute to, I have continued reviewing the Julia's [documentation](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/) and am starting to feel comfortable working with the language.  The documentation goes quite in depth and has actually been quite fun to go through! The section concerning [floating-point numbers](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/integers-and-floating-point-numbers/) introduced me to the work of [William Kahan](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~wkahan/), known as the "Father of Floating-Point", and I've since been perusing some of his writings. 

Going forward, our group is aiming to set up a time that we can meet each week to work on the project, and we are planning on meeting next Wednseday (March 27th).  We should hopefully have a concrete set of issues to work on within the next week so that we can finally begin implementing some fixes!