---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---
### Project Evaluations

This past week, we were given the assignment of performing project evaluations on three different open source projects: DOxygen, Netflix Conductor, and OpenFoodFacts Server.  We had to assess three aspects of the projects: the structure of the code base, the general activity level of the project, and the overall welcomeness of the community. Evaluating the code base oddly felt like the easiest of the tasks.  This generally involved looking up the dependencies of the project, examining the file structure, documentation, build instructions, and so forth.  Appraising the activity level and welcomeness of the projects proved to be quite time consuming, as these are less straight forward tasks that require combing through pull requests, open issues, and the project's communication channels.  There were two takeaways from the project evaluations that I found particularly helpful.  The first was simply getting more familiar with GitHub's interface, such as working with the Insights tab to gather general activity information about a project.  The larger takeaway, however, was the realization I had of what kind of open source community I am looking to get involved with.  While none of the three projects I evaluated had hostile communities, there was still a range of how friendly and welcoming each was.  As someone who feels nervous and somewhat self-conscious about getting involved in an open source project, I really appreciate when projects take the time to welcome new users to the community and make them feel comfortable.  This will be one of the primary characteristics I look for when I looking for projects to take part in. 

### Contributions

This week was a milestone in my open source journey!  I made my first succesful pull request to an open source project.  The project is Shogun, a machine learning library implemented in C++ with bindings for a number of other languages (http://shogun-toolbox.org/).  I found a small typo in the documentation and added a patch to fix it.  A link to the pull request can be found here: https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/pull/4535